welcome welcome to session 60 for today
where we talking a little bit about mac
OS x server and sees keynote
presentation yesterday he discussed a
lot about panther and from the new
features that we've introduced in the
desktop today we're going to be talking
about macro some server Panther give you
a little bit of overview of what the
product is some of the new features that
are in it we understand that many of you
in the audience some of you are using
macros and server today for others this
is the first chance you've had to take a
look at the product so we're going to
kind of try and have a session here that
can cover both audiences what we're
doing is we're building a server
operating system that is really
innovative it's really the easiest way
to deploy open source server solution as
you'll see in this presentation there's
a lot of open source software that we've
taken built into the server operating
system but our goal here again is to
make these open source server solutions
very easy to use let's take a step back
and look at what Apple's been doing in
the past with our server products in May
of 2001 we introduced mac OS x server
version 10.0 that was really the first
new version in our server operating
system line and then in September we
came out with a new version that was the
10.1 version and that was pretty much
pretty similar to the previous product
is from the performance improvements and
stability improvement about this time
last year at the developer conference if
any of you were here we kind of let out
a little secret that we were working on
a new machine that was we talked about a
rackmount server and we announced that
in June and shipped it shortly
thereafter so xserve was a major
accomplishment for Apple and really
marked a hallmark in our history of
really going after the server market
place and then in September just a
couple months after we introduced Mac OS
and server Jaguar the version version
10.2 and that was really a radical
improvement for us with regards to the
server operating system a lot of
performance improvements many new
features a lot of new desktop management
enhanced
enhancements again later ly er this year
of moving forward earlier this year in
February we updated the exurbs again
came out with a brand-new xserve annex
or cluster node version and then the
wonderful extra raid which just has
massive amount of storage for
unbelievable price and then our next
version our next big server
accomplishment that we're working on
right now is Panther Panther server and
Steve mentioned that's scheduled to be
available later this year hopefully all
of you have had a chance to take a look
at the software that we distributed to
you yesterday in that packet there is a
copy of chancellor server and i know for
me talking to some of you in the
audience that many of you have already
installed it and been playing with it so
i encourage you to do that there's a lot
of new features in their new
enhancements that you won't find in the
desktop so really what is Apple server
strategy this was discussed a little bit
in bud tribble keynote presentation
yesterday but apples really striving to
bring innovation to the data center we
think that there's a lot of innovative
new technologies simplifications that we
can bring back to the data center so
what we're doing is as we mentioned
we're building this you know
industrial-strength server operating
system we are leveraging the
capabilities of the open-source group
we're building upon the projects that
they've provided for us and we're also
focusing on standards and standards as
you know is very key because it doesn't
lock you as a customer into one
particular vendor it allows you to pick
the best solution for the for what
you're deploying we're also trying to
build a product that has a lot of
different services built in we want this
proxy very flexible fitting into
different environment so there's a lot
of different services in the product
everything from file and print services
and internet and web desktop management
technologies media streaming there's a
whole wealth of services that are built
in but again our goal here is to really
lowers cost of ownership well lower the
cost of ownership for our servers but
also for desktop system
with our desktop management technologies
that we've built into the product so
what's new in Panther well there's a
wonderful array of new features and this
is just some of them we've got a really
new improved Darwin core operating
system the BSC layer of the offering
system as you'll find in some of the
presentations there's a lot of new
enhancements there we've got a new
automatic server setup feature making it
very easy to configure an entire rack of
X charge or just a single server all
from a configuration file will be
talking about that more later today and
Kim the other session we listened to
your feedback we've improved our
administration software have a new
server admin application we've built in
Samba 3 some apples Mac listen server is
really going to be the first commercial
operating system to ship with samba 3
and sum of three gives us a lot of new
features the ability to support PDC so
we can host windows home directories
have a single account for a log in and
authentication open directory we have a
new version of open directory again not
only ldap base directory services but
also Kerberos for authentication single
sign-on goes along with kerberos so the
user only has to enter a single password
and they can access other services on
their network a complete end-to-end VPN
solution we have a VPN client in the
desktop operating system and now a VPN
server in Mac OS and server jboss
application servers for hosting j2ee
based applications and then also the put
new postfix mail server having a really
industrial-strength mail server finally
on our on our server so now I'd like to
turn the presentation over to Greg burns
Greg is the engineering manager for all
the mac OS and server project and Greg
will give you an overview of some the
features that are in Panther server Greg
thank you
so now we're going to take shorts or
some of the features in Panther server
and specifically we're going to focus on
some of the things they're new in this
release but we'll cover all of it as
Eric mentioned for those of you maybe
are not so familiar with the product and
as many of you heard yesterday
underlying mac OS x server is a unix
foundation based on open source based on
bsd and it provides the scalability and
the reliability you need for a
competitive server platform we've
upgraded this to be sd5 and Panther
server and with us we get a lot of
improvements one of them is we've
improved performance in this release
we've improved the raw throughput and in
addition we've added POSIX asynchronous
i/o support which has been popular
request from our database developers
we've also enhanced the scalability of
the file system we now support up to 16
terabytes file systems journaling is
something that was introduced for the
server in HFS in an update for ten two
and we've now integrated that into HFS
and it is the default for all HFS in mac
OS 10 journaling file system and finally
another popular request case-sensitive
hfs+ for people that are sharing file
systems out to unix clients using exurbs
NFS servers case sensitivity has been a
very popular request so you now have
that as an option in the server with VST
networking also comes advanced features
like icy v6 that I see sex as well as
multi-homing for most hosting multiple
web domains for capable ethernet
interfaces we support gigabit jumbo
frames port and we also have I see over
firewire which makes a great
back-channel networking interface for IP
sale over IP failover provides high
availability in the server it allows you
to set up a pair of servers that are
clustered and can support bail over each
one can monitor the other and pick up
this IP addresses and its services in
case the other one fails and then
relinquish them ones when the second
server comes back online we also support
automatic restart which allows any
service to be restarted should it fail
it also will restart the whole
them in the event of a system hangs and
finally software raid provides
reliability and performance and the
storage layer and of course there's
hardware raid as well from the xserve
raid product line and for anybody that's
familiar with UNIX of course with VSD
comes all the familiar networking and
system administration tools secure login
through ssh a variety of shells all the
VSD command is very familiar to anybody
that's administered a BSC or a linux
server so you'll feel right at home now
we could stop there and just take all
the open source foundation and throw the
services on it but we didn't and we've
put a lot of effort in and making sure
that it's all integrated and making sure
that the management tools that we
provide make the whole system very easy
to set up and very easy to use and so
what we've done is we've added tools for
automatic set up automatic configuration
we've provided a wide suite of server
management tools for ongoing day-to-day
management and we've provided directory
management tools for the directory
automatic server setup allows you take a
server right out of the box and set it
up very simply in a matter of seconds
you can take a server configuration for
things like IP address domain name
service setup and you can save that into
a file and put it on a portable device
like a firewire drive an iPod or a USB
key chain drive and then when you take a
server right out of the box brand-new
turn it on plug it in to the network you
can just plug that driving to the server
it will cuz I will recognize the
configuration file and configure itself
automatically in a matter of seconds now
that works great if you have one or two
or three servers but if you have a whole
rack of servers even just moving the
drive around can get kind of cumbersome
so what we've also done is allow you to
store this configuration out of the
network so you can take a rack of
servers that are brand new never been
touched plug them in plug them into the
network turn them all on and have them
all grab their configuration directly
and be up and running in
our second so you can't get much simpler
than that so let's move over to a quick
demo here and we'll have Eric come up
and just do a quick demonstration to
show you how simple this really is okay
so we're going to go to slide number one
or machine number one here and normally
when you set up the server you have the
setup assistant that comes up and walks
you through configuring the server what
we what we've done is we've walked
through that that process so saved all
those settings into a file that i have
trim this it's ipod and so i'm going to
take the ipod and i'm going to plug it
in here and if all goes well what
Panther server is going to do is going
to see that this ipod is connected is
that it mounts and in a couple seconds
will see a barber pole come up it's
going to configure the server and get
the services up and running for that
configuration and then it's going to
automatically restart the machine so
it's a little unsold our IP address we
didn't know that but this configuration
file sets up and the design method
restarts and then you're set to go all
right thanks sorry so in your networks
y'all better control of your IP
addresses than we do here at the moscone
let's set but it is very simple so let's
move on back to these slides here
so another area that we've improved in
Panther server is the administration
tools we've taken all of the
administration tools and integrated them
into a single app which allows you to
set up and monitor your services on a
day-to-day basis it runs as XML over
HTTP so you can monitor and configure
your services remotely you can configure
and mod or multiple services from within
the app and one cool feature we've added
in cancer server is the ability to
easily replicate configurations between
servers so for instance if you have a
server configuration like a file server
or web server and you set it up and you
want to replicate that across the bank
of servers you can now just take that
configuration and drag it from one
service to another and it will
automatically configure the second
server or the third or the fourth so it
makes it very easy in a single steps to
configure multiple servers and to change
your configurations across multiple
servers on an ongoing basis again very
simple a very cool feature that's new in
Panther server so again we'll hot air
come up and we'll do a quick demo server
admin okay so we'll move to a computer
number two here and so the server admin
application is like I said is a great
new applications in cancer server allows
you to take a look at all the services
that you have running so in this list
here on the Left we have two servers
that I'm connected to them watching the
servers and I can connect through here I
can see their network traffic and the
CPU usage and and get some of the
various information one that really neat
features this ability to actually take
the settings from one service and apply
that to another so I'm actually going to
open up a new server window here and in
this interface I'm going to go to my
Apple file server and I'm a set make
some changes to the configuration so i'm
going to say you know welcome to my
server server rock and i can go in here
and change you know a configuration
methods you know that's great any method
i can set it to only you know support
200 connection i can save here
no I can go okay we're going to go back
I can go to logging I can set different
logging options even control different
settings now when I save this I can take
this configuration just by holding down
this little checkbox this check mark
that we have here I can drag that to
another server in the list so over here
I'm dragging the other server and it'll
take that setting and apply that to this
other server so it's a really easy way
of taking the services the configuration
that you have from one machine and
applying it to other machines on your
network thanks there lastly workgroup
manager allows you to manage the
directory in mac OS x server all Mac
os10 server is based on directory system
open directory that underlies it and all
of the information about account
authentication service configuration is
stored in the directory a workgroup
manager lets you easily manage this
usually managed account account settings
as well as preferences and other things
that can be configured through the
directory because Mac os10 server is
based on ldap this actually works with
any ldap v3 server the one that comes
with mac OS x server as well as if
you're using a third-party ldap server
for your environment it will work with
those as well another new feature we've
added for Panther server is a directory
inspector which is very cool feature for
power users that actually actually
allows you to go in and edit the raw
records in the directory server so it's
not something you need on an everyday
basis but it's a powerful feature
feature for people that need it so open
directory is an area that we've made a
lot of improvements enhancer server open
directory is mac OS x framework for
accessing directory and authentication
information all of the services in the
client and the server use open directory
and open directory allows us to
integrate with the native services in
mac OS x server l doubt and kerberos as
well as a variety of other services n is
for unix environment Active Directory
net info DSD files so you have a wide
variety of choices for configuration and
for storing directory and I
information for your Mac os10 system so
in mac OS x server we provide the
services themselves ldap is now based on
openldap and kerberos is based on MIT
kerberos and kerberos provides us with
single sign-on which is near the Panther
and Panther server this allows you to
log in once securely at login time at
the login window and then access all of
your services with a secure Kerberos
ticket so file services email you don't
have to store passwords separately for
each service now and also for those of
you that are familiar with math question
server this also gives us authenticated
automount so this is another important
security improvement in mac OS 10 server
we know that not all of the services are
going to be surprised that some of you
will always need to access legacy
services that use standard password
encryption and so for that we have
password server which provides legacy
legacy encryption methods so a single
server a single sign-on is based on
Kerberos we are adopting MIT kerberos to
this it's the based on v5 we're not
changing the Kerberos protocol in any
way and so because of that our
implementation our server our client can
be used with any deployment of MIT
kerberos so whether you choose to use
mac OS 10 as your KDC or whether you
choose to use your own residing on
another on another platform our services
will work now of course we provide KDC
and Mac os10 server to make it really
simple out of the box to set up and
configure and have a complete
authentication and directory environment
another improvement we've made an open
directory is to improve the scalability
of the directory services ldap is now
hosted on berkeley DB for scalability
for those of you familiar with server in
the past it was hosted on the net inflow
back end we still have net info in the
system for those of you that want to use
it for legacy support reasons but for
mac OS x server Panther server and
beyond all the default directory
services are based on l doubt on
openldap on berkeley DB this gives us
the capability of hot backup for greater
availability and scalability to over a
hundred thousand records for server of
course you need more than that and you
can also replicate your services we
provide replications locally that allows
you to have greater availability or to
have multiple servers serving the same
directory information and you can also
replicate remotely for greater
availability for remote site and another
thing we've done again to further
improve the overall usability of the
system out of the box is we've
integrated the Kerberos KDC back end
with password server and with the ldap
server so that all the replication
happen simply and automatically out of
the box you don't have to worry about
wiring except it's all connected and
integrated fully and so that will bring
up Eric just to show you how simple it
is set up open directory services in
cancer server okay so we'll go back to
computer computer number two here so on
the screen you'll see that we have an
open directory service remember to ldap
the Kerberos the sasal password
authentication server so i can go and I
can set a couple different settings for
them first of all I can see an overview
of what's actually running on the system
I can look at the log and then make
configuration changes so this server is
currently stuff to be a standalone
server it's an isolated server but I can
promote it to be an open directory
master going to turn on the ldap
services and the Kerberos Casey etc I
can also have a replica my network a
replica is a machine that's bound to the
master I can also have this server
connected to an existing directory
system so we've done a lot of work in
the user interface here to really
improve that make it easy to understand
you can also go through and configure
the different protocols search basis set
up ssl authentication and you can also
define password policies for your
network so if I wanted to say that all
my passwords on the network has to be at
least a certain number of characters
along or differ from the last four
passwords that you've used I can make
that change and impose that upon all the
users in their network right thanks Eric
go back to presentation that's open
directory too so one of the most popular
services for any server obviously is
work of services file and print for the
local internet and of course we provide
a wide variety of services there for
both silent rates looking specifically
at the file sharing side we provide data
services format clients asp SMB sis for
windows clients and NFS per unit we've
improved the performance in this release
as before we provide support for
multiple protocols on any SharePoint so
all clients can share the same data all
the ascent occation is unified through
the ldap back end with the same account
information and we have disk quota
support so you can control the use of
server resources we made some
improvements to NFS in this release one
popular use of NFS in the server is to
reshare the NFS volumes via asd NFS has
some security compromises when you use
that as a sharing method and so a lot of
people like to take a bank of exurbs and
use them to reshare enterprise storage
via AFP to their clients and another
area we've improved NFS is in greater
performance and also improving the
reliability in this release and adding
NFS file locking support for data
integrity we've added Samba three for
Windows client support and integrated
PDC or primary drink domain controller
support directly into the server so
that's all configured directly out of
the box very simply and easily through
the administration tools and what this
means is now that when you log into a
Windows client at the windows login
window you can use the same
authentication data from mac OS x server
hosted an ldap that your mac clients use
or that any other client use you can
share a home directory with your mac
client whether you're accessing it from
Windows or Mac and you can host your
roaming profiles on the server that's
all built into the system and it's
configured through the GUI and finally
we've added Active Directory Integration
this is native integration that's new to
Panther for both client and server and
what this means is that there are no
schema change is required in after
directory to support an actual extent it
integrates with the Kerberos
authentication and active directory and
for large installations that have
multiple domains in their active
directory forest we support automatic
multi-domain authentication so it's all
very simple to use very simple to
configure out of the box and all of the
services in mac OS x server can use
active directory as their directory for
its storage of their directory account
another area that's important in worker
services is work group management we
spent a lot of effort at Apple making
mac OS 10 very simple and easy to
configure easy to set up and use and
that's great if you have one system but
you know you might have more than one
you might have one hundred a thousand
and then you know what do you do then
well we have a set of products in mac OS
x server that serve it that make this
very easy to manage you can install
systems on a large number of desktops on
the network you can set them up you can
configure them and manage them on a
day-to-day basis these are work group
management services in mac OS x server
it's all directory-based so all of this
system configuration is stored in the
directory we provide services that allow
you to control preferences to set
preferences on these systems to control
their use of resources both on the
system and on the network and we provide
tools to allow network installation and
setup of these systems something that's
new in cancer server also is the ability
to do this on mobile systems so if you
have mobile computers powerbooks ibooks
you can manage their accounts you can
manage the authentication information
the account information
and all of the preferences and
everything else that you set to the
directory and that will be synchronized
automatically when your system comes
onto the network and so even mobile
computers now can be managed using these
tools and finally two tools for
installing and managing images on the
network netboot netinstall netboot
obviously allows you to boot a system a
desktop or server over the network and
two things that we've added in Panther
server are the ability to netboot over
HTTP as well as NFS and also the ability
to do a fully disclose net suit which is
very handy if you have an image of
network diagnostic tools where you want
to divide a problem you can net boot
completely independently of any disk
that's running remotely or locally on
the desktop for network install this
allows you to install systems over the
network using net boot and you can use
it to distribute software images
distributed software updates and we've
made a couple improvements to this in
Panther server one is we've redesigned
the tool that you use to create the
images the network image utility to make
it simpler to use and add a lot more
options to it more powerful and another
option that we've added in a big request
is the ability to do full image installs
so now you can take a volume that host
system software has applications
installed it's fully configured and you
can clone that and do network installs
of system or volume images as well as
packages or clean system installed so
that covers the work group services
built into mac OS x server so now what
I'm going to do is I'm going to bring
Chris lacroix and then Francis Francois
Giroux up on stage and they're going to
talk more about some of the services
that allow you to host web services as
well as network services in mac OS x
server for Chris it's great
alright so internet and networking
services she ate a bunch of the
directory services and file services mac
OS x server also includes a good number
of internet and network services slowly
start that up first one is media
streaming so necklace 10 server has
always included quicktime streaming
server which is an extremely powerful
media streaming cervix like extremely
powerful for doing screaming on the land
and do extremely high quality across the
land of supports multicast you can send
extremely high bitrate quick content
over your networks using a look at
multicast it supports mpeg-4 all the
QuickTime content mp3 compatible with
Windows and Macintosh players it's also
a server that is powerful enough to be
to be used for streaming across Munich
so a lot of a big content distribution
networks that you see including the ones
that Apple users are using the
tensioning server as their if they're
straining server for serving mpeg-4 and
QuickTime content and then with the
advent at 802 11 in a powerbook in the
QuickTime broadcaster application you
can actually have a completely mobile
solution so you can actually take a
powerbook wirelessly walk around the
room scream broadcast send it up to a
server and stream that out over the
Internet and she not done quite a few
times so new with some Panther servers
quicktime streaming server 5 it's got
all the same features that it's always
had it has no license keys we don't
charge per screen supports mac windows
and linux clients which reports linux
plans through it some mpeg-4
compatibility and supports in an instant
on technology which basically eliminates
all of the buffering messages you would
see normally when you're when you're
streaming if it starts up as fast as if
it's playing locally on a good broadband
connection skip protection which is our
technology for guarantee and quality of
service across the internet as we know
there are always blips in the internet
skip protection is the technology that
basically eliminates those blips when
you're watching content and the server's
performance sternly well that comes off
of a single machine stream up to 4,000
concurrent streams and if you want to do
more than that are clearly just a matter
of buying a few more expert so also knew
which Panther server is cute ESS
publisher so this is a new application
that provides a way to remotely manage
your cons your clicked on content it
we're putting up on the internet so it
automatically takes care of things like
hinting or preparing it for the web
servers it'll automatically create web
galleries that it's tightly integrated
with the Apache web server on mac OS x
server it has all of you I for creating
playlists managing the order of play
list scheduling playlists and doing all
those things mp3 playlists as well as
quicktime content playlist it allows you
to edit annotations and
behind-the-scenes all of this is
happening with some unix tools that we
wrote for Panther server so you can now
from the command line do things like
hint movies change annotations all of
that from the shell if that's that's the
way like to do you think quicktime
broadcaster is probably shipped about a
year ago it allows you to take any
firewire camera plug it in and do a
broadcast from your computer supports
all of the quicktime codecs and of
course it supports the standard mpeg-4
scott a bit of functionality we call
reliable transporting with a diaz is a
guarantee that the stream from the
broadcaster to the server is going to be
is going to be a solid stream and that's
really important because if you lose
packets from the broad between the
broadcast or in the server every single
client sees that lush we've got a way to
guarantee that all the package get there
it supports unicast and multicast as
well and as I and it delivers is no
complaint streams so those are an pit
floor stream to any standard player so
to play on Linux for any player that
supports for standard ISO and pick for
clarity so networking services
got books from old stuff and some new
stuff and panzer regressions they old I
mean it was available in Jaguar circuit
and they go through both of those we
have an entire slew of networking
services I'm not going to go through all
of these DNFs dhcp you've got network
time server firewall we've added VPN
which is new authentication and it's all
standard so you can connect Macintoshes
you can set windows machines Linux
machines install completely standard we
don't we don't believe in proprietary
technologies where we can help it so
dynamic host configuration we've had
dhcp and jaguar server we've got is a
couple of things to a panther server
gates occasional provides automatic
doling out of addresses we've added the
ability to specify Elda ldap directories
for those machines we've also added the
ability in the UI to find a specific
ethernet address to the IP address of
any machine so they've got machines that
you want to have a permanent IP address
but have it served up via DHCP you can
do that now to arm through our admin
application and of course you can
control IP address ranges the lease
times and network routing things like
that next some networking network
routing technologies so we have all
we've had an ad on the desktop for mac
OS x server we've now moved that
functionality into the server so in the
server admin you can now configure NAT
we've also added a VPN server and you
can all end that confess all
configurable in the new server admin as
well it works it's worked with all
standards that also works with windows
technologies so that you can use things
like ms chap and pptp as well as lttp so
DNS so we've we've bumped version of
bind up to nine so good like that for
you
[Applause]
so you're going to get dynamic dns
things like that and this is all you
know every so every one knows what's the
most light widely deployed dns server on
the internet for those of you who really
like to configure bind files your job
security is kind of limited now that
we've added you I to the to the habit
and if you get a chance to look at it
it's actually pretty slick I think we
did a good job on on the UI on this one
and firewall this isn't new but we have
we done to you I on this it's really
simple to set up kind of basic rules
excusing the standard Berkeley ipfw we
also have some UI that will allow more
advanced people to set up basically any
rule at IPFW can handle and something we
didn't have in the past all of the
configuration for firewall was actually
stored up in that info database we move
that down into a config file although
you can do everything in the UI if you
need to SSH into a machine jeron them
you know an on Macintosh machine you can
always get in there and change those
configurations that way and next is mail
through position so Mac lives tanks
rivard prior to Panther we had a
proprietary mail server if it was a
standard server it supported all of the
normal internet standards we also had a
web mail server through squirrelmail
allows connectivity because because it's
all standard to any to any platform that
supports standard mail we've made a
couple of changes we no longer have a
proprietary mail server we've moved to
post fix for the MTA and we did that for
a lot of reasons it scales well it's
very secure written by a security expert
the configure it's easy to configure in
terms of the configuration files I've
ever seen send mail configuration you
know what I'm talking about and then
we've all for imap and pop we've moved
to Cyrus and there were a few reasons
for doing that too so Cyrus is a proven
imap server it supports clustering so
it's easy to scale it you can configure
it to work with multiple machines and it
also supports
the ability to store your mail for
different accounts on on any variety of
machine so if you want to segment up
your email users for two different
back-end stores you can do that and it's
not a problem to all the Cyrus and we
are of course carburizing it so it'll
work properly with single sign-on and it
also will support we will support ssl
our mail servers so on top of mailing
list with the with the what the mail
server we had in the past with Jaguar it
had a fun a feature that would allow you
to take any group in the directory and
treat that as a mailing list while we're
losing that because with the new mail
servers but what we decided to do and
replace that functionality is to add
like a real mailing list server so we've
added the mail mail man mailing list
server mailman's extremely powerful it's
actually the one if you go to lift stop
calm one Apple users for its mailing
list for the public we've built some UI
into into the server admins who actually
create mailing lists in the admin
mailman as you know has web-based tools
as well so for your end users they can
go in and they can change their options
if they want digest mode if they don't
want digest mode they can go to a web
page and set all of that stuff up it
supports all kinds of features such as
mailed in mail the news gateways bounce
handling spam prevention and if also
it's also got email based administration
commands as most of good mailing this is
do webmail so we have read the version
of webmail that we're using in Panther
server web mail is a standards-based
webmail package written in PHP there's
really good things about one isn't it's
pure HTML it's not using any JavaScript
it's compatible with basically any
browsers you have to worry about
compatibility their works with any smtp
or IMAP mail server eyes you know the
reason why you need to use it with
anything other than Panther server
supports mind encoding address books now
which is new we didn't have that in the
prior version folder manipulation you
can host this mail via ssl so you can
have completely secure mail
over the web and we've gone the version
that we've moved up to now supports
Japanese so we've got Japanese support
for squirrel mail and it just going to
come up in the demo some embryo okay so
we'll go back to computer number two
here and our mail server in the pic mail
server is a really great mail service or
really happy to provide a really good
user interface for it so here in the
user interface the administrator can go
in they can enable and disable smtp set
up there I map even have messages sent
you know to postmaster at you know apple
com or whatever I can go in and I can
configure the mailing list those Chris
showed in the user interface here you
can enable them i can add new ones to it
i can set up filters spam prevention is
very key very important this user
interface here allows us to have a real
rich set of spam filtering options and
then also controlled many large levels
and then the last inner last screen here
allows you to configure the
authentication options and some of the
host this is really important if you've
got if you are in secure environments or
you want to use kerberos only for your
authentication nice feature down here is
the ability to use ssl so i can say you
have to use SSL or i can use a self
that's available or it can require ssl
so if you want to implement secure email
on your network that you can do that and
force it and enforce it in requirement
for all your clients grapes in check
so back to UM slides so next is web
services in Panther server we are once
again including the Apache web server we
have we have performance optimized
Apache web server we've were able to do
far far far more connections that aren't
than a typical Apache web server would
be able to do even a little faster and
Panther we ship 1.3 is the default web
server and that's actually the one that
you'll be you'd be configuring when
you're when you're in the server admin
but we do include two point oh so people
who do want to use that xterra you can
use it part of the problem of weed
screen is that there just hasn't the
adoption rate really the adoption hasn't
really happened yet there a lot of
modules that haven't been ported over to
teria 20 yet and so patching 1.3 is what
we decided to stick with for Panther we
greatly improved the administration
interface you crawl I'm you making bud
tribble demo a little bit of a little
bit of it yesterday it's really really
easy to set up sites and realms and
things like that gnome as include we
included web dev for web publishing we
have bumped the version of MySQL 24 so
for those of you waiting for that that's
there and we server has all kinds of
support for server-side scripting
architectures SSI pearl Ruby Ruby PHP
we're changing the build style of PHP so
we're actually including more of the
functions of more of the development
functions that people needed and they've
got in our patent our PHP module so that
will be good for developers so basically
taking all of you some sudden estevez
can read all of it macos cancer server
basically has everything needed to
create three-tier websites for inter web
sites on Mac OS 10 the server we include
a bunch of stuff to do your own thing if
you you know you've got third-party
products you can grab as well for the
oracle so it's a great development
platform for web for web development and
french walls going to come up and talk a
little bit more about those technologies
think
okay to wake up the audience let's have
a little show of hands how many she said
means are among us today how many
developers sitting in for this admins
also these people must be a little way
of overhead right now and for them Steyn
to take out your notebooks and to
remember the few slides that are going
to come up so in mac OS x server we are
leveraging the best standard and the
best technology to bring you the best
application servers but first there is
java java has evolved as an OS on top of
us nowa days application servers are
huge multi-threaded visas they are all
implemented in Java they spawn thousand
of simultaneous threads they open and
close thousands of i/o connection and
the necessitate an enterprise-grade java
vm underneath them that's what we are
providing with a jdk one dot for on a
jdk 103 implementation now the big news
today is able jboss is very popular on
out there it is popular for three
reasons it's free it's free and it's
free
now holding you bundle free software and
no and do not show up at a freeloader
you add value and we believe we are
adding tremendous value on top of tables
the real three reasons for tables being
popular are it's unbeatable quality for
the price I'm going to include the next
one is its perceived ease of use and the
third one is its modular design it is
perceived ease of use but as mercury the
jboss founder says they are pushing the
envelope at the container level which
means that they are not really investing
in the deployment ease of use developers
developers love jboss deployers hate it
if your assistant mean to use tables
you'll have to speak XML in your dream
now this is going to be a dream come
true we are introducing tool to enable
you to deployable easily on my question
server all goal is to make mac OS x
server the best platform to deploy j2ee
applications we are doing this in three
steps first jboss is integrated in the
server admin plugin so gone there is a
JBoss deployment tool that lets you take
j2ee application from ide and package
them talking to the JBoss server
prepackaged them to deploy them and
third there is a JBoss management
console that lets you manage the JBoss
server start and stop services look at
its statistics and so on and manager
lifecycle of your application now this
is all night work where is the modular
design I'm going to give you a few
examples of services that we are
language able the first one is tom cat
you're all familiar with tomcat we've
been shipping it for a while we are
reading the version to what 24 dot one
dot X because it's always involved and
we integrated it enjoyable so no tom cat
lives inside table and can be managed by
the same tools as I talked about in the
previous slide and the servlet and JSP
applications can be pre packaged by the
deployment tool the web objects
application server web object has been
improved and will be shifted version 5
dot-to-dot to with a much better j2ee
packaging process you know as true war
packaging for web objects and also
through jndi configuration for web
objects another example is again from
apache it's the active web service
project we're bringing version 1 dot one
and it is integrated it benefits from
tables and also is leveraged by
webobjects for all direct web services
solution it will be the session 624 i
believe on friday so these are all but a
few examples of services that are
bundled with tables and they enabled
they enabled us to bring to mac OS x
server the best in j2ee application
deployment
[Applause]
so as you can see whether you're hosting
a single website or whether you have a
sophisticated three-tier java
application architecture Mac os10 server
has all of the services that you need
built right in finally last but not
least documentation so we currently ship
mac west end server with two manuals and
we've got lots of requests to improve
that and so we've answered those
requests and we are going to be upping
that count 12 manuals in this release
will have over a thousand pages of
online help and we've added or updated
over a hundred man pages to better
document the UNIX underpinnings of mac
OS x server so we've really made some
big improvements there so to wrap it all
up so Mac os10 server built on a strong
UNIX foundation we have a broad array of
services these are some of the
highlights they won't even all fit on
one slide but we've taken all of those
we've integrated them we've put
administration tools on top of them to
make it easy to set up and use and
manage on a day-to-day basis and for
Panther server the items up in blue our
services that are either been added or
had major enhancements in this release
so BSC 5 automatic setup you know major
improvements to the management tool open
directory to you know samba 3 VPN post
fix mail server jboss application server
so we've made a lot of changes in
Panther server it's going to be a great
product so we also have a lot of
sessions that are coming up here if you
want to learn more this gives you an
overview of the products kind of let you
know what's in math western server
there's an in-depth session that's
coming up after this over in the marina
that's going to go into more detail
about api's and underpinnings of the
server
do you want more information we have
server sessions on authentication and
directory services this afternoon and
tomorrow and for those of you that are
interested in desktop management we have
sessions on those tomorrow and Thursday
that will tell you more about the
services and also for developers tell
you about building applications that
work well in those environment now one
thing if you're interested in giving us
feedback we have a feedback form today
it's at five o'clock but unfortunately
due to scheduling conflicts it's also at
the same time as the authentication
session so we hope they'll come to one
of those either come to the
authentication session to learn about a
syndication or come to the feedback form
where we'll be there to answer your
questions or take your feedback but we
hope to see you at one of those tomorrow
we have a wallet story actually there's
several weblogic sessions going on
throughout the conference but here are a
few that are that we've called out of
major interest but check your books for
the others as well as several sessions
or quicktime streaming as well so if you
have any more questions you'd like to
contact somebody skip lemons and
developer relations or erics lanka and
product marketing or the contacts for
mac OS x server and with that I'd like
to bring the speakers back on stage we
have a bit of time for Q&A if anybody
has any questions please step up to the
mic and we'll take impressions
you